Updated README.md with steps for macOS BigSur (#3288) (#3311)
DataBiosphere/azul: README.md

- AWS credentials configured in `~/.aws/credentials` and/or `~/.aws/config`

> - macOS Big Sur (11.x) users should follow additional steps mentioned in [Troubleshooting](#5-troubleshooting).

Reviewer: This can be specified even further to the correct heading that was added to the Troubleshooting section.
ex.
https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul/blob/f77c031973c7ffe3d30dd4f5477fb800850c55e0/README.md#macos-big-sur-pyenv-build-failed

- AWS credentials configured in `~/.aws/credentials` and/or `~/.aws/config`

> - macOS Big Sur (11.x) users should follow additional steps mentioned 
>   in [Troubleshooting](#installing-python-383-on-macos-bigsur)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- User of macOS Big Sur (11.x) should follow additional steps mentioned 
  in [Troubleshooting](#installing-python-383-on-macos-bigsur)
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- macOS 11 (Big Sur) or later users should follow additional steps mentioned 
  in [Troubleshooting](#installing-python-383-on-macos-bigsur)
```

And in kind everywhere else. In general, I want to reduce the amount that the code name is used, in favor of the version number. But most importantly we should account for the fact that the same fixes may be necessary in subsequent versions.

>   in [Troubleshooting](#installing-python-383-on-macos-bigsur)

Reviewer 2: Anchor is undefined. Link does not work.

Author: Don't know how I glossed over that mention of `bigsur`. It has been changed.

in [`AzulTestCase`](test/azul_test_case.py) and commit the modifications. 

## Installing Python 3.8.3 on macOS BigSur

[pyenv Big Sur GitHub issue](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/issues/1740)

macOS Big Sur users may encounter a `build failed` error when installing Python through pyenv. 
To remedy this there is a patch file which runs the installer compatible with 
macOS Big Sur (11.x).

> First is to install openssl readline sqlite3 xz zlib and bzip2 using brew:

Author: I completely glossed over the fact that there was a hyperlink in the suggestion.
I have added it.

in [`AzulTestCase`](test/azul_test_case.py) and commit the modifications. 

## Installing Python 3.8.3 on macOS BigSur

[pyenv Big Sur GitHub issue](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/issues/1740)

macOS Big Sur users may encounter a `build failed` error when installing Python through pyenv. 
To remedy this there is a patch file which runs the installer compatible with 
macOS Big Sur (11.x).

> First is to ensure that all requirements for the Python build environment from the pyenv wiki 

Reviewer: What happened to the link to the wiki? See the previous 2 comments. https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul/pull/3311#discussion_r696893231

are met. We extend their suggestion and also install bzip2.
```
brew install openssl readline sqlite3 xz zlib bzip2
```

Follow any additional steps that `brew` requires for installation, these 
should include modifying path variables `LDFLAGS` and `CPPFLAGS`
The commands from the brew output to modify the aforementioned path variables 
can be placed in the `~/.bash_profile` to make the change persistent

Install python 3.8.3 using pyenv by running:
```
pyenv install --patch 3.8.3 < <(curl -sSL https://github.com/python/cpython/commit/8ea6353.patch)
```

## Failure to locate wheels on macOS Big Sur

[Resolution source](https://stackoverflow.com/a/63972598)
[macOS Big Sur Release Notes](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/macos-release-notes/macos-big-sur-11_0_1-release-notes#Third-Party-Apps)

Pip will not be able to locate the appropriate wheels due to the major release version of 
Big Sur being incremented from `10.x` to `11.x`, instead pip will attempt to compile wheels 
manually for wheels that it cannot locate. 

In order to be able to run `make requirements` successfully, a backwards compatibility

> flag needs to be added to the `environment.local` file in the project root:

Reviewer: I was wrong in the last comment, it should be `environment.local.py` file in the project root; `environment.local` does not exist, and setting the flag there will not work with our environment commands.

in [`AzulTestCase`](test/azul_test_case.py) and commit the modifications. 

## Installing Python 3.8.3 on macOS BigSur

[pyenv Big Sur GitHub issue](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/issues/1740)

macOS Big Sur users may encounter a `build failed` error when installing python through pyenv. 
To remedy this there is a patch file which runs the installer compatible with 
macOS Big Sur (11.x).

> First is to install zlib and bzip2 using brew:

Reviewer: Just a note, I confirmed w/ @danielsotirhos that bzip2 was also installed on his machine. Verified that the LDFLAGS and CPPFLAGS were modified to include bzip2, as well as confirmed that it was installed using `brew` on his machine.

in [`AzulTestCase`](test/azul_test_case.py) and commit the modifications. 

## Installing Python 3.8.3 on macOS BigSur

[pyenv Big Sur GitHub issue](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/issues/1740)

> macOS Big Sur users may encounter a `build failed` error when installing Python through pyenv. 

Reviewer 2: L

> Users of macOS 11 or later may encounter a `build failed` error when installing Python through pyenv. 

Reviewer 2: L here and everywhere

> To remedy this there is a patch file which runs the installer compatible with 
> macOS Big Sur (11.x).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A patch was made available to remedy this:
```

> First is to ensure that all requirements for the Python build environment 
> from the pyenv [wiki](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/wiki#suggested-build-environment) 
> are met. We extend their suggestion and also install bzip2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, ensure that bzip2 and any other requirements for the Python build environment are met.
See [pyenv wiki](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/wiki#suggested-build-environment) for details:
```

brew install openssl readline sqlite3 xz zlib bzip2
```

Follow any additional steps that `brew` prompts for at the end of the installation. These  

> should include modifying path variables `LDFLAGS` and `CPPFLAGS`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
should include modifying path variables `LDFLAGS` and `CPPFLAGS`.
```

> Follow any additional steps that `brew` requires for installation, these 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow any additional steps that `brew` prompts for at the end of the installation. These 
```

> can be placed in `~/.bash_profile` to make the change persistent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
can be placed in `~/.bash_profile` to make the change persistent.
```

> The commands from the brew output to modify the aforementioned path variables 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The commands from the `brew` output to modify the aforementioned path variables 
```

> can be placed in the `~/.bash_profile` to make the change persistent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
can be placed in `~/.bash_profile` to make the change persistent.
```

> Install python 3.8.3 using pyenv by running:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then install a patched Python 3.8.3 using `pyenv` by running:
```

```
pyenv install --patch 3.8.3 < <(curl -sSL https://github.com/python/cpython/commit/8ea6353.patch)
```

> ## Failure to locate wheels on macOS Big Sur

Reviewer 2: People may think they are done when the previous subsection ends. This should be the third step in a single section.

> The information below will help remedy this:

Reviewer 2: W

Author: @hannes-ucsc what did you mean when you commented `W` and `L` on some of the suggestions like this one and [here](https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul/pull/3311#discussion_r705781746).

Reviewer 2: See my pinned comment in `#team-boardwalk` on Slack.

[Resolution source](https://stackoverflow.com/a/63972598)
[macOS Big Sur Release Notes](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/macos-release-notes/macos-big-sur-11_0_1-release-notes#Third-Party-Apps)

> Pip will not be able to locate the appropriate wheels due to the major release version of 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`pip` will not be able to locate the appropriate wheels due to the major release version of 
```

Big Sur being incremented from `10.x` to `11.x`, instead pip will attempt to compile wheels 
manually for wheels that it cannot locate. 

In order to be able to run `make requirements` successfully, a backwards compatibility
flag needs to be added to the `environment.local.py` file in the project root:

```

> SYSTEM_VERSION_COMPAT=1

Reviewer 2: This is not what the entry in `environment.local.py` would look like. I would remove the literal block here and use plain English to describe the addition.

in [`AzulTestCase`](test/azul_test_case.py) and commit the modifications. 

> ## macOS Big Sur: pyenv build failed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installing Python 3.8.3 on macOS BigSur
```

[pyenv Big Sur GitHub issue](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/issues/1740)

macOS Big Sur users may encounter a `build failed` error when installing python through pyenv. 
To remedy this there is a patch file which runs the installer compatible with 
macOS Big Sur (11.x).

First is to install zlib and bzip2 using brew:
```
brew install zlib bzip2
```

> `brew` output should tell you the steps to editing the path variables LDFLAGS and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow any additional steps that `brew` requires for installation, these should include modifying path variables
`LDFLAGS` and `CPPFLAGS`
```

CPPFLAGS.

> The command can be placed in the `~/.bash_profile` to make the change persistent

Reviewer: What command?

> The command to install python 3.8.3 using the patch file is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install python 3.8.3 using pyenv by running
```

```
pyenv install --patch 3.8.3 < <(curl -sSL https://github.com/python/cpython/commit/8ea6353.patch)
```

> ## macOS Big Sur: Replace preinstall LibreSSL

Reviewer: Make this a required step when installing Python, merge it into the previous section.

If the cryptography package fails to install through `make requirements`,
install OpenSSL through brew (`brew install openssl`) and use the instructions from brew output to
edit the path variable.

> The above command can be placed in the `~/.bash_profile` to make the change persistent

Reviewer: again which command?

The above lines can be used in tandem with the LDFLAGS and CPPFLAGS from
installing zlib and bzip2.

> ## macOS Big Sur: `pip install grpcio` fails due to wheels build file not being found

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Failure to locate wheels on macOS Big Sur
```

[Resolution source](https://stackoverflow.com/a/63972598)
[macOS Big Sur Release Notes](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/macos-release-notes/macos-big-sur-11_0_1-release-notes#Third-Party-Apps)

To enable successful installation of the `grpcio` python library, a backwards compatibility

> flag needs to be added to the `~/.bash_profile`:

Reviewer: This should not be done in the ~/.bash_profile because that can lead to installation issues with other software that this person uses, instead it should be in the environment.local that's located in the project root. This will only get sourced when someone is working with our project.

```
SYSTEM_VERSION_COMPAT=1
```

> This will force the environment to register as 10.16 allowing the specific 

Reviewer: Change the organization of this section.
Start with the symptoms, `what will happen if this env var is not set?`
Explain what is happening, `why is returning version 12.0 problematic?`
Give the solution.

## macOS Big Sur: pyenv build failed

[pyenv Big Sur GitHub issue](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/issues/1740)

macOS Big Sur users may hit a `build failed` error when installing a new pyenv.
To remedy this there is a patch file which runs the installer compatible with 
macOS Big Sur (11.x).

First is to install zlib and bzip2 using brew:
```
brew install zlib bzip2
OR
brew reinstall zlib bzip2
```

The output should tell you the steps to editing the path variables LDFLAGS and
CPPFLAGS, however the following command should suffice:
```
export LDFLAGS="-L/usr/local/opt/zlib/lib -L/usr/local/opt/bzip2/lib"
export CPPFLAGS="-I/usr/local/opt/zlib/include -I/usr/local/opt/bzip2/include"
```
The above command can be placed in the `~/.bash_profile` to make the change persistent

The command to install python 3.8.3 using the patch file is as follows:
```
pyenv install --patch 3.8.3 < <(curl -sSL https://github.com/python/cpython/commit/8ea6353.patch)
```

If this failure still occurs then run the following lines and retry installing python 3.8.3:
```
sudo rm -rf /Library/Developer/CommandLineTools
xcode-select --install
```

## macOS Big Sur: cryptography library fails to install

> If the cryptography package fails to install through `make requirements`,

Reviewer: Note we can add OpenSSL environment changes to the envionment.local file in the project_root, this ensures that its not going to mess with any system applications that rely on LibreSSL.

install OpenSSL through brew (`brew install openssl`) and use the following lines to
edit the path variable:
```
export LDFLAGS="-L/usr/local/opt/openssl@1.1/lib"
export CPPFLAGS="-I/usr/local/opt/openssl@1.1/include"
```
The above command can be placed in the `~/.bash_profile` to make the change persistent

The above lines can be used in tandem with the LDFLAGS and CPPFLAGS from
installing zlib and bzip2. The lines to use then would be as follows:
```
export LDFLAGS="-L/usr/local/opt/zlib/lib -L/usr/local/opt/bzip2/lib -L/usr/local/opt/openssl@1.1/lib"
export CPPFLAGS="-I/usr/local/opt/zlib/include -I/usr/local/opt/bzip2/include -I/usr/local/opt/openssl@1.1/include"
```
The above command can be placed in the `~/.bash_profile` to make the change persistent

> ## macOS Big Sur: `pip install grpcio` fails

Reviewer: This issue was more related to wheels not being able to be located for Big Sur. Because old version of MacOS return version 10.x when asked what version they are using this caused problems because internally Big Sur is 11.x. Setting this envvar forces the return value to be 10.16, w/ 10.15 being the last release that was before Big Sur.

It happened to be that we found the issue with grpcio but that's only because the specific version that we require in the requirements.txt is missing a wheel for 11.x. If we change the requirements in the future there might be a different failure.

> [Resolution source](https://stackoverflow.com/a/63972598)

Reviewer: I think we should refer to this link https://developer.apple.com/documentation/macos-release-notes/macos-big-sur-11_0_1-release-notes#Third-Party-Apps

```suggestion
[macOS Big Sur Release Notes](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/macos-release-notes/macos-big-sur-11_0_1-release-notes#Third-Party-Apps)
```

process may also increase the chance of the `AzulTestCase` context manager
causing a failure.

If these failures occur, add the warning to the list of permitted warnings
found in [`AzulTestCase`](test/azul_test_case.py) and commit the modifications. 

## Installing Python 3.8.3 on macOS BigSur

[pyenv Big Sur GitHub issue](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/issues/1740)

Users of macOS 11 or later may encounter a `build failed` error when installing
Python through pyenv. A patch was made available to remedy this:

First, ensure that bzip2 and any other requirements for the Python build
environment are met.

> See [pyenv wiki](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/wiki#suggested-build-environment)

Reviewer 2: Empty line between paragraphs, but this shouldn't be a new paragraph or even a new line. To avoid having the link run over the margin, use reference-style links.

for details:

```
brew install openssl readline sqlite3 xz zlib bzip2
```

> Follow any additional steps that `brew` prompts for at the end of the
> installation. These should include modifying path variables `LDFLAGS`
> and `CPPFLAGS`. The commands from the `brew` output to modify the
> aforementioned path variables can be placed in `~/.bash_profile` to make the
> change persistent.

Reviewer 2: Wrapping is still wrong. For example:

```suggestion
Follow any additional steps that `brew` prompts for at the end of the
installation. These should include modifying path variables `LDFLAGS` and
`CPPFLAGS`. The commands from the `brew` output to modify the aforementioned
path variables can be placed in `~/.bash_profile` to make the change
persistent.
```

Author: I believe wrapping should be fixed with the latest edit.
I don't know if it was right but I set the line length setting in the Pycharm Preferences to 80.
It seemed right since it matched up to the max length of most other lines.
I thought it was max length 79 but I re-read the Contributing guidelines and realized that I misinterpreted it.

Reviewer 2: The version I commented on was wrong under both setting, 79 or 80, so that alone doesn't explain the mistake.

`CPPFLAGS`. The commands from the `brew` output to modify the aforementioned
path variables can be placed in `~/.bash_profile` to make the change persistent.

Then install a patched Python 3.8.3 using `pyenv` by running:

```
pyenv install --patch 3.8.3 < <(curl -sSL https://github.com/python/cpython/commit/8ea6353.patch)
```

Users of macOS 11 or later may encounter `pip` installation errors due to `pip`
not being able to locate the appropriate wheels. The information below will
help remedy this:

[Resolution source](https://stackoverflow.com/a/63972598)

[macOS Big Sur Release Notes][2]

`pip` will not be able to locate the appropriate wheels due to the major release
version of Big Sur being incremented from `10.x` to `11.x`, instead pip will
attempt to compile wheels manually for wheels that it cannot locate.

In order to be able to run `make requirements` successfully, a backwards
compatibility flag needs to be added to the `environment.local.py` file in the
project root. The flag is `SYSTEM_VERSION_COMPAT=1` and it needs to be inserted
into the file (starting from line 25) as a key/value pair:
`'SYSTEM_VERSION_COMPAT': 1`.

> [1]:https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/wiki#suggested-build-environment

Reviewer 2: Emulate the style used in the rest of the file. Using numbers is brittle.

Then install a patched Python 3.8.3 using `pyenv` by running:

```
pyenv install --patch 3.8.3 < <(curl -sSL https://github.com/python/cpython/commit/8ea6353.patch)
```

Users of macOS 11 or later may encounter `pip` installation errors due to `pip`
not being able to locate the appropriate wheels. The information below will
help remedy this:

[Resolution source]

[macOS 11 Release Notes]

`pip` will not be able to locate the appropriate wheels due to the major release
version of macOS being incremented from `10.x` to `11.x`, instead pip will
attempt to compile wheels manually for wheels that it cannot locate.

In order to be able to run `make requirements` successfully, a backwards
compatibility flag needs to be added to the `environment.local.py` file in the
project root. The flag is `SYSTEM_VERSION_COMPAT=1` and it needs to be inserted
into the file (starting from line 25) as a key/value pair:
`'SYSTEM_VERSION_COMPAT': 1`.

[pyenv macOS 11 GitHub issue]:https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/issues/1740
[pyenv wiki]:https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/wiki#suggested-build-environment
[Resolution source]:https://stackoverflow.com/a/63972598

> [macOS 11 Release Notes]:https://developer.apple.com/documentation/macos-release-notes/macos-big-sur-11_0_1-release-notes#Third-Party-Apps

Reviewer 2: Defines these immediately after the paragraph containing the first reference. And only use reference style links where an inline link causes overly long lines within a paragraph or otherwise disturbs the flow.
